When making a request, in addition to the headers and the URL, we can also specify a request method.

These are sometimes referred to as HTTP verbs.

Unlike the request headers, which are just metadata about the request, the method can affect what

the request does.

You will be familiar with request methods if you've used forms in HTML.

By default, a form uses the GET method, but you can also specify POST in the "method" attribute of

the form.

In addition to GET and POST, there are other methods such as PUT and DELETE. Note that you can't specify

these additional methods in a form in HTML, but you can when using client side JavaScript to make Ajax

requests,

and of course, when using cURL from PHP, as we'll see in a moment.

We just learned how to use the GitHub API to check if a repository has been starred or not.

However, we can also use the API to change this status. To remove a star from a repository, or to add it.

Note that the endpoint URL is exactly the same for all of these actions - to check if a repository is

starred, to remove it, or to add it.

What differs is the method used in the request.

As we can see, this repository is currently starred in my user account.

So let's change the code to remove the star.

The default request method is GET, which is why we haven't been setting this until now. -

that's all we've needed to use. To change the request method,

we specify the CUSTOMREQUEST option,

setting it to the method we want, in this case DELETE.

Note that unlike in HTML, the method has to be in uppercase,

otherwise, it won't work.

Let's try that, and we get a 204 status code, which means it worked.

And if we refresh the page in the browser, we can see that it's no longer starred.

Let's change the code again to add a star back to the repository.

Again, we don't need to change the endpoint URL,

just the method. This time, we'll change it to PUT, making sure it's in uppercase.

Let's run that again,

we get the 204 success status code, and in the browser, we can see that the repository has been

starred again.

So just by changing the request method, we can carry out different actions. The GET method will retrieve

if the repository is starred or not,

DELETE will unstar a repository, and PUT will star a repository.

These three different methods do different things with the same endpoint URL.

This is a key part of RESTful APIs, which we'll learn about later on.
