We're getting the URL and request method, and to test this

up to now, we've used the browser.

However, using the browser like this, we can only make GET requests. To use other request methods,

we could create an HTML form to test the POST method, and write some JavaScript code that uses Ajax requests

to test other methods.

This would effectively be writing a client for working with an API though,

and there are already several of these available.

We've already been using cURL from PHP to access various APIs. cURL is also available on the command

line.

It is installed by default on most desktop operating systems, but you can download it for free from

here if you don't already have it.

To make a GET request in cURL, you just call the curl command followed by the URL.

This will request the URL and print out the body of the response, just like we saw in the browser. To

use a different request method, we specify the --request option, for example, using the PATCH method.

You can abbreviate this option to -X if you prefer.

If you prefer a graphical user interface, an alternative to cURL is Postman.

This is available for all operating systems.

You can download this and run it locally,

or use the browser-based version.

Instead of working on the command line, you specify the URL, request method, headers and so on using

a GUI.

Another alternative is HTTPie, which, like cURL, is a command-line tool. HTTPie is more user friendly

than cURL though, and is specifically designed with API development in mind. To install HTTPie,

just follow the instructions for your particular operating system.

Once installed, to use HTTPie on the command line, we simply enter the "http" command, followed by the URL.

GET is the default method, so we don't need to specify it. To specify another request method,

we simply include it before the URL.

As you can see, in addition to the response body, the headers are also shown, highlighted in different

colours.

All these API clients are cross-platform and free.

On this course, I'm going to use HTTPie, as it's simpler than cURL and more lightweight than Postman.

As far as the course content is concerned though, it doesn't matter.

So feel free to use whichever you prefer.


