In addition to the URL we specify when we make the request, we can add headers to the request.

Headers represent metadata about the request: the address of the server making the request, or details

about the client, for example.

Plus, they can be used to send authorisation details, like an API key, or to request data in a specific

format

or language. The headers are simple key value pairs sent as strings.

To show an example of how to use request headers, let's use the Unsplash API to retrieve data about

a random photo.

To use this API, as with the one we saw previously,

you need an API key, which you can get by creating a free account.

As before, we could pass the API key in using the query string like this,

but we can also do it using the Authorization header.

First, let's change the API endpoint we're requesting to the Unsplash API endpoint that returns a

random photo.

Before we out of the authorisation details, let's run this, and we get a 401 status code, which

tells us the request requires authorisation,

and in the body of the response, we're told the access token is invalid.

So let's add the API key in a request header. To do this,

first, we'll create an array which contains each header we want to pass as a string.

To authenticate with this API, we pass in the "Authorization" header, which is separated by its value

by a colon,

then the string "Client-ID", and finally, the API key value.

So let's copy this,

and paste it in the array of headers.

You need to change this value to your individual API key.

If you want to pass in more request headers, you can simply add more elements to this array.

Then, to pass these headers along with the request, we set the HTTPHEADER option, setting the value

to the array.

Let's give this a try.

When we run it, we get a 200 response code, and the body of the response contains the details of a random

photo:

its URL, dimensions and so on.

So the request headers allow us to add metadata about the request. Some APIs require specific headers

to work, for example, in this case, the API key in the authorization header.

Others require details about the user agent and so on,

but details of these will always be covered in the API's documentation.


